Wow that was a difficult one let's see
if I got it right five on five correct
let's go what is up guys karma medic
here and welcome back to another dose
I'm really excited to be doing today's
video we're finally going back to
answering the UK questions or you count
questions as the test is now cold if you
guys don't know I'm a second year
medical student studying at King's
College London and last year on this
channel I did a similar series where I
answer you've had questions live on
camera so that I can walk you guys
through my thought process and through
what it is that I was thinking about
while actually doing the questions this
video is brought to you in partnership
with medified an online you can't
question bank with over 10,000 questions
and I'm gonna be using their question
Bank for the content and the questions
that I'm doing in this video
so abstract reasoning if you don't know
is the part of the you cat that's
suppose to test your ability to find
underlying or hidden patterns and
information on shapes so usually how it
works is that they present you with a
series of shapes in box a and a series
of shapes in Box B and then they present
you with a new shape and you have to
decide if it belongs in a or if it
belongs in B there are other questions
as well such as completing a series or
analogy type question so this shape is -
this shape as this shape is - that shape
this isn't making any sense let's get
into the general tips and then you'll
see the questions so abstract reasoning
general tips for this section it's so so
so important that you do a wide wide
wide variety of questions the more
questions that you do the more patterns
that you're gonna see and the more types
of patterns you're gonna see come up
more and more often the second general
tip I want to say is that for abstract
reasoning you generally have a very
short amount of time to be answering
these questions so if you can't figure
out the pattern if you get stuck or if
you're confused or whatever just skip it
and come back later it's not worth
wasting time trying to figure out any
one pattern because the ukk is marked in
positive marketing so you get marks for
every question you answer you want to
answer as many questions as possible
some of those patterns that I'm talking
about can be easily broken down into an
acronym called scans so SC a and s so
the essence scans stands for shape and
what I mean by shape is take a look at
the shapes that
in the boxes so are they circles are
they squares are the triangles are they
curvy are they straight do they have
right angles are they open or closed or
they irregular are they regular the next
part of scans is C so C stands for color
and for this you want to look out are
the shapes shaded a certain way so are
there either black are they white and do
they have stripes are they cross-hatched
you wanna take a look at the color of
the shapes then in scand we have a which
stands for arrangement so our shapes
always present in a certain area so for
example on the left half of the boxes on
the right half in the bottom in the top
right corner in the bottom left corner
do arrows point in a certain direction
are the shapes positions in a certain
way these are the kinds of things we
want to take a look at for arrangement
and then for n you want to look on
number so is there always a certain
number of odd shapes a certain a number
of even shapes is there always a certain
number of circles or triangles or
squares also there could be a total
number of shapes within a single box or
something like that and then lastly in
scans there's a second S which stands
for size and I might be able to give you
a clue as to the underlying pattern last
thing I want to say for general tips is
if you take a look at a set of shapes
and you think it's really really
confusing start off by looking at the
most simple box first that simple box is
going to have to follow the same rule as
all the other more difficult and complex
boxes so starting off with the most
simple box can usually lead you to
finding that pattern if you guys want to
see more general tips check out my
abstract reasoning video from last
summer
and now let's jump straight into
answering questions live on camera
alright guys so I've got mattifies
question Bank open on my computer like I
said today we're starting with abstract
reasoning as I go through these
questions you might want to pause before
I go through it and show my reasoning
and show what's going on if you want to
try and figure out the questions on your
own and see if we both come up with the
same rules I'm pretty nervous not gonna
lie as you can see I haven't attempted
any of these questions yet this year and
so hopefully it all goes well and I
don't embarrass myself on camera here we
go first question this shape is - this
shape as this shape is to that shape
okay so what I want to do for a question
like this is I want to take a look at
one single object okay I'm not gonna
look all four of these squares at the
same time I'm gonna start by looking at
one of those squares and all I want to
do is see what happens what changes when
moving from that left shape over here to
the right shape over here let's focus on
the top left one these two gray boxes
here
become top and bottom on the right so
it's almost like they've rotated this
way or they've moved that way let's see
if that happens to anything else here so
black and white it should be white here
black here which it is okay so look
already I've only looked at one of the
four squares and I already know what the
pattern is I don't I'm not going to look
at anything else I don't care about
anything else I know what the pattern is
so let me figure out what this answer is
going to be so if I know for example
that these top two shapes let's look at
this because it's more simple so these
top two black ones are going to get
rotated like this so I know that in my
answer the upper right most box is going
to have two black shapes one on the top
and one on the bottom so let's look at
the answers oh and they they know that I
know that too so this answer this answer
and this answer all have the two blacks
in the top right corner so I know it's
either a B or C I'm gonna eliminate D so
now I have to look at something else
that changes in order to distinguish
these three different answers these two
great ones here they now need to move to
the bottom here in my answer so oh just
kidding they don't rotate like that
let's see what happens here oh okay
interesting so so now in looking at the
answers I've discovered another rule so
in the top left box here we said that
those two gray shaded ones rotate like
this but in the bottom here
let's take a look at these two gray ones
they rotate anti-clockwise so the bottom
row rotates anti-clockwise and the top
row rotates clockwise so let's see if
this rotates clockwise here for the
three answers so it doesn't do that here
so this cross and this white square
needs to rotate clockwise and be like
this which is present here it is present
here but it's not present here so we can
eliminate C as well so now we know it's
between a and B let's look at the bottom
row so here we know this needs to rotate
anti-clockwise now so these two gray
ones need to be on the top in our final
answer which is only present in a1
correct let's go
first question cut it right we started
with these two great things here those
get rotated then when we looked at the
answers we realized that something else
has to be going on because I couldn't
choose one of those three answers so we
went back and we saw that the bottom
bottom two squares were getting rotated
anti-clockwise boom let's go on to
question number two
another analogy question so this is -
this as this is - that so what's going
on here
pac-man circle pac-man triangle pac-man
diamond okay so I'm assuming depending
on where this right angle is it's gonna
make a different shape I'm assuming so
okay so nice I got it so these two
shapes are black and the cutout has come
from the right half of the circle these
three shapes are white and the cutout
has come from the left half of the
circle so this is from the right half
here and this is also from the right
half so so this shape this shape and
this shape in our answer have to be
black so this fits that description and
this also fits that description so B and
D let's take a look at these two shapes
they're cut out from the left half so
they need to be white in our final shape
which fits the description here but does
not fit the description here so I think
B is the answer correct okay all right
next question which figure completes the
series so again in this shape in each of
these boxes we have three shapes so
let's just focus on one shape at a time
let's focus on this arrow it goes from
facing right to down to left to up so
now we know it's gonna have to face
right so let's see which of these faces
right nope yes yes yes so we know that
it's either B C or D now let's look at
this white circle it goes from black to
white to black to white
so let's look here we know needs to be
black so white so nope black black so we
know it's either C or D and then we have
this gray are on the bottom left right
left right left so we know the answer
has to be C this is an example of a very
simple question that through very
systematic reasoning and logical
reasoning you can come to a good
conclusion so like we said instead of
looking at this in one go and getting
confused
you take one shape at a time and see
what changes and you move on okay so
this is our first set a set B question
okay so when I'm presented with this
question okay what is what are the first
things that I'm looking at first of all
both set a and set B are all colored
black so I'm just gonna forget about
color for a little bit the second thing
that I'm going to do is quickly count
the shapes so I see that there's two
here two here three four five one two
three four so any ideas that I had about
odd or even total numbers of shapes I
have gone out of the window because
there's two here three here 5 here so
that
out of the way what else can I notice in
here these guys kind of make a face this
also makes a face but that's probably
just to distract me I'm kind of thinking
that over here the shapes on top have
more sides than the shapes on the bottom
that's kind of what I'm seeing here
whereas here the shapes on the bottom
have more sides than the shapes on the
top not this one this one would fit that
description
this one would also fit that description
and this one would fit that description
so I know that there's something wrong I
know that I don't have the pattern 100%
down otherwise it would be easy to
choose one of these options so let's
take a look at this one this should be
easier to do the shape with the most
should be at the bottom and moving up so
I would choose this one here so this has
five sides four sides one side said B we
want the one with the most at the bottom
so it'd be this here set a the one at
the top should have the most number of
sides so this one here let's see if I
got this one right or wrong okay nice so
I actually got four out of five this is
a good lesson so even if you're not a
hundred percent sure of the pattern even
if you think you have at least one of
the rules so sometimes in a pattern
there is one rule two rules and then if
they're really mean they'll put three
rules in a pattern so if you're not a
hundred percent sure if you feel like
your rule works most of the time but not
all of the time it means that you
probably have at least parts of the rule
correct and so as you can see even with
just parts of the rule I still managed
to score four out of five correct so if
I scroll down here I can see the
reasoning let's say this is what I'm
talking about I had figured out the rule
that the shape with the greatest number
of sides is the top most shape and that
managed to score me four out of five
points for this question the second rule
was if there are two or more triangles a
circle appears that is super complex
that is going to be super difficult to
notice so it's something that I
personally wouldn't waste my time on if
you have a rule and you know it works
most of the time just go for it because
you don't have a lot of time to answer
these questions so just make sure find
the role and you start answering boom
boom boom boom boom even if you score
four out of five that's good that's
great it's better than wasting time
trying to find all the different rules
and trying to score five out of five
because you can use that same time on
easier questions that are going to
appear later
on in the test circles and triangles
great and here we also have circles and
triangles so let's talk about number 2 2
2 2 2 4 3 3 3 3 1 2 3 4 5 6
dammit 1 2 3 4 5 6 this could still be a
rule I can still say in set B there are
either 3 or 6 circles and triangles
whereas in set a there's either 2 & 4
okay so we can say multiples of 2
instead a multiples of 3 and set B so
this is gonna belong to a next this is
gonna belong to a next 6 4 this is 2 4 6
that's gonna be B this is 3 so that's
gonna be B and don't forget there's also
an either oh that would have helped me
in the first one that we did if not
first thing that I go wrong when I got 4
out of 5 it was probably neither I
forgot about now so yeah this is say a
let's see what went wrong the number of
triangles equates the number of circles
and set B is doubling the number of
triangles equates to the number of
circles if you find a rule that you
think is too simple kind of like this
one I should have known if the rule is a
bit too simple then it might be the case
that there's another rule going on but
having said that we did this question
very quickly and we still scored 3 out
of 5 it's not the end of the world it's
actually not a bad thing at all next
question let's just get an overview of
what's going on here okay 2 black 2
white 2 black 2 white 2 black 2 white 2
bucks white one black 1 whiners they're
equal here this is for black to white
for black to black okay cool I figured
out that in set a there's an equal
number of black and white shapes the
circles where as in set B there's only
one color which of the following test
chips belongs in set B so it needs to be
all one color not this this could be it
not this and not this okay so we know
that it must be B which of the four
tests responds an A so this could be the
case this could be the case and this
could be the case so now we know that
there's at least something missing to
our rule well scan I see there's never
black there's never black and black on
the same half vertically so here we can
see on the right half there's black and
white there's black and white there's
black and white so here I'm going to
look for some
so these are on opposite sides black and
white which is never the case this is on
the same side so no this is this is it
yeah so here you can see that on the
left half of this man there's one white
circle one black which is the same here
on the left half there's always one
white one black one white one black so
now I know that there's a second part of
the rule that I've missed the fort but
it's okay I've caught on to it whereas
here it's always on opposite sides same
color you see right half white circle
left half white circle and same here
left half black circle right half black
circle so let's keep that in mind moving
forward let's check a actually to see
that we got that right well it can only
be this one here anyway
because they all have to be the same
color within one picture in set B which
of the following test shapes belongs in
set B so remember they have to be
opposite sides and same color so it
could be this cannot be this cannot be
this which of the following test shapes
belongs in set B so again we need to
have opposite sides of the things same
color see this can get really confusing
it helps if you write some of these
things down so it's not gonna be either
of these because they're lopsided here
on the left half there's three circles
here on the right half there's three
circles so it's not gonna be that one
another one which of the following test
shapes belongs in set a set a it was
opposite color so not this not this can
be this and can be that yeah so not this
one it has to be seen five out of five
correct
now I'm gonna lie that was really tricky
let me click on them just so we can see
what exactly the thing was so inside a a
black eye means there is a white circle
on one of the limbs on the same side of
the body what I figured out is the exact
same thing as this except I had it in a
much more simple layman's terms wait
allowed me to identify the shapes
quickly so you don't have to come up
with this perfect wording over here or
the perfect way like a black eye means
there's a white circle on the limbs on
the same side of the body however you
can think about it like for example for
me I just split the shape into left and
right vertically and I said opposite
colors I said top-down colors however it
works for you if you find the pattern
and if you find a way to distinguish
what's going on
stick with it alright guys I think
cut off this video here so this is going
to be part 1 of answering abstract
reasoning questions live on camera I'm
gonna be posting part two in a couple of
days so make sure that you like this
video subscribe to the channel so that
you're notified as soon as that one goes
live don't forget to follow me on
Instagram if you want to see more
content from me about my daily life as a
medical student under researcher leave
me a comment down below letting me know
how you found this video and anything
that you want me to improve for the next
one and I will see you in the next video
peace